# W3F Grant Proposal



- **Project Name:** Unite DAO
- **Team Name:** Unite DAO Core Team
- **Payment Address:** eth:0x43B30443578bD3dc75445d49BcCE652Df22225fC
- **[Level](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/master#level_slider-levels):** 2



## Project Overview :page_facing_up:



### Overview



***



- Unite DAO - Trust coordination framework to elaborate and evolve standards for WEB3 and framework to coordinate standards as Public Goods. 



***



- So basically, we're trying to create a framework to coordinate standards as Public Goods, so that's what the mission is like: standards should be Public Goods. But they are not Public Goods today.

  And there's a big business all around the world about standards. Companies like ISO or many institutions worldwide make a lot of money just being in the middle, the men in the middle when it comes to standards. And that's wrong because basically, the standard is just a way for two organizations to cooperate. It's interoperability between entities, whatever it is.

  Another thing: Experts build today's standards.

  When we say experts - we mean corporations.

  The way we name things so that we can cooperate, such as language, is a standard. If we don't have language, we can't cooperate, and we don't have a standard.

  And business, they need the standards. Imagine that two companies want to buy one from each other. So they need a standard paper where they say:

  This is the number of things I want to buy.

  Here is the price and tax.

  Here is the address.

  So that's a standard.

  An invoice is some standard so companies can talk to each other.

  And the only way we can have standards today is by going to standardization bodies, international bodies, where any standard takes one to five years to build, and guess who is building it - experts.

  So basically, it costs a lot of money and time.

  A business that needs a standard pays a lot of money to people who can build but don't need the standard. Standardization bodies are hired to create a standard but not to use it.

  And this means that basically for them, a standard it's a whitepaper of 300 pages that nobody understands, and it's normal because then everybody needs to hire them to understand that standard, and that's once again a big business.

  All big corporations like Microsoft or Google are just part of this standardization body because they want to control the standard.

  That's a big business.



***



- Then comes Web3.
  And in Web3, we also need the standards, a lot of them. But the speed is entirely different, and the standards we need are also different.

  How to bring a sword from one game to another? Or take a car from one game to another. And it's still a car there. It could work in games or other areas, like art, music, etc.

  So standards are huge!

  And if we do standards, not by experts but by doers, and we move the lifecycle of the standard from three years to two weeks, then we can have real interoperability in Web3 that we don't have right now.

  Every time we speak to other protocols, they have a problem because there are five protocols, and all of them are naming things differently, and there's no way they can just put it together.



***



- So this coordination is where we go in.
  We will offer a way where coders, people who are building something, go to this Wikipedia for standards (Unite DAO) because we want to have them in the same place. I look for the standard, and if it's there, I can use it. If not - I can build it within the Unite DAO or look for someone in the Unite DAO community who would build the standard.

  A standard can be almost anything and used not just by coders. So finally, the ones who are using the standard are bloggers, artists, musicians, entrepreneurs, DeFi, Metaverse, Gaming, NFTs, and many more. Standards can be used for anything because the standard is just a way of naming things that we both agree on and understand.

  We can build standards fast, standards that builders make. Builders can be coders, artists, musicians, or anybody who needs a standard and want to use it. Builders can segment into working groups and verticals. Then you can have a working group for NFT, Metaverse, Music, Security, DeFi, Gaming, Art, and many more. There can be a lot of working groups, and they can grow organically — this way, you can scale standards, and no one controls them.

  There are some standards that you need to pay if you want to use them. And we think it's wrong. Standards really should be Public Goods and open-source so everybody can use them.



***



### Project Details



We have this Roadmap that we would like to share and present.

Here you will find all the necessary details about our project: Short-term, Mid-term, and Long-term goals and the components required to achieve those goals.

Unite DAO Roadmap: https://github.com/Unite-DAO/Documentation/wiki/Unite-DAO-Roadmap



***



### Ecosystem Fit



- We think that our project can fit in any ecosystem. Standards are required to create true interoperability, and we can help.

- Our target audience can be musicians to designers, parachain/dapp/wallet/UI developers to some dapp's userbase, projects to individuals, Metaverse, DeFi, and NFT projects. We will be the first (Unite DAO Core Team) to build and use our very first standard - Skill NFT (more about Skill NFT in our Roadmap).

- Unite DAO meets the need for standards when communicating with each other. In a short period (past few months), we spoke with many projects and protocols - all agreed that we need some standard to communicate with each other.

- We are pretty sure that some projects do the standards for various ecosystems. But the problem is that no one is trying to achieve what we are trying to do - to build a hub, a Wikipedia of standards. Many projects that do standards focus on one particular issue, like the Metaverse standard or NFT standard. And we want them to come to us and unite everyone, so we have one place for all standards we need. We are the tool, a framework, not the one kind of standard itself.



## Team :busts_in_silhouette:



### Team members



- Name of team leader: Alex Puig.
- Names of team members: Art Kateiva, Jahed Momand, Alex Casas, Joan de Ramon Brunet, Enrique Aznar, Alexandra Cavero, Coltonorr, Martin.



### Contact



- **Contact Name:** Alex Puig
- **Contact Email:** hello@unitedao.xyz	
- **Website:** https://linktr.ee/unitedao



### Legal Structure



- **Registered Address:** Address of your registered legal entity, if available. Please keep it in a single line. (e.g. High Street 1, London LK1 234, UK)
- **Registered Legal Entity:** Name of your registered legal entity, if available. (e.g. Duo Ltd.)



### Team's experience



Alex Puig: 

I'm an Identity strategist and tech entrepreneur with a global knowledge on how technology can impact in our society.My areas of interest are Self Sovereign Identity, Blockchain, Zero Knowledge Proof. I founded Alastria Blockchain Ecosystem, the first National Wide semi-public blockchain Platform and lead the Technical Team at Caelum Labs, a Blockchain consultancy and development firm based in Barcelona.



***



Jahed Momand:

I currently do two things. First, I invest in and actively contribute to protocols, DAOs, and companies building social coordination technologies to address the climate and ecological crisis in web3. I'm specifically focused on the Cosmos and Regen ecosystem, and I facilitate positive sum deals with my involvement in PrimeDAO.

Secondly, I use my background in decentralized organizing and platform cooperatives to help entrepreneurs with product, growth, research, and most importantly, community. I think community is the next moat in tech, and nothing will happen without community input and incentives.. I invest in and help founders build with their communities— aka the Ownership Economy.

Previously, I was in digital health and b2b SaaS as a product leader and entrepreneur. If you're interested in chatting about this or working with me, feel free to reach out, but I no longer invest in digital health. Those details follow below.

I got my start in Silicon Valley at Vungle (acquired by Blackstone $800M in 2019), using Dan Ariely's work in behavioral economics applied to the design and psychology of in-app ads. I then shifted focus to healthcare technology, working with a talented team of PMs, designers, and engineers to launch the first D2C ChatCare product at Zoomcare, as well as the mobile product. We took that product from $0 -> $5MM in revenue within 9 months. At Conversa Health, I joined at 0 customers, led product, and launched our biggest contract with Northwell, and proved out our Virtual Care model, in the process creating the category itself. Conversa is now the market leader in this category, and was recently acquired by Amwell for $320 million. Then at Magalix, I joined the founders as a co-founder from 500startups, and had a wild ride leading PM and then Marketing to a successful acquisition by the GitOps leader, Weaveworks. 

I have a proven track record of doing the work it takes to take a venture from 0 -> $1MM and $1MM -> $5MM, as an IC and a team builder, in product, marketing, and research.



### Team Code Repos



- https://github.com/Unite-DAO
- https://github.com/Unite-DAO/Documentation
- https://github.com/Unite-DAO/Documentation/wiki/Unite-DAO-Roadmap



Please also provide the GitHub accounts of all team members. If they contain no activity, references to projects hosted elsewhere or live are also fine.



- https://github.com/art0eth
- https://github.com/cryptobenkei
- https://github.com/JoanDeRB
- https://github.com/JahedM
- https://linktr.ee/coltonorr



### Team LinkedIn Profiles (if available)



- https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexpuig
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/art0eth
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/jahedmomand
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexblockchain
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/joan-de-ram%C3%B3n-brunet-98613b124/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/enriqueaznar/
- https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexandracavero/



## Development Status :open_book:



If you've already started implementing your project or it is part of a larger repository, please provide a link and a description of the code here. In any case, please provide some documentation on the research and other work you have conducted before applying. This could be:

- links to improvement proposals or [RFPs](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/master/rfp-proposal) (requests for proposal),
- academic publications relevant to the problem,
- links to your research diary, blog posts, articles, forum discussions or open GitHub issues,
- references to conversations you might have had related to this project with anyone from the Web3 Foundation,
- previous interface iterations, such as mock-ups and wireframes.

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:

This section should break the development roadmap down into milestones and deliverables. To assist you in defining it, we have created a document with examples for some grant categories [here](../docs/grant_guidelines_per_category.md). Since these will be part of the agreement, it helps to describe _the functionality we should expect in as much detail as possible_, plus how we can verify and test that functionality. Whenever milestones are delivered, we refer to this document to ensure that everything has been delivered as expected.

Below we provide an **example roadmap**. In the descriptions, it should be clear how your project is related to Substrate, Kusama or Polkadot. We _recommend_ that teams structure their roadmap as 1 milestone ≈ 1 month.

For each milestone,

- make sure to include a specification of your software. _Treat it as a contract_; the level of detail must be enough to later verify that the software meets the specification.
- include the amount of funding requested _per milestone_.
- include documentation (tutorials, API specifications, architecture diagrams, whatever is appropriate) in each milestone. This ensures that the code can be widely used by the community.
- provide a test suite, comprising unit and integration tests, along with a guide on how to set up and run them.
- commit to providing Dockerfiles for the delivery of your project.
- indicate milestone duration as well as number of full-time employees working on each milestone.
- **Deliverables 0a-0d are mandatory for all milestones**, and deliverable 0e at least for the last one. If you do not intend to deliver one of these, please state a reason in its specification (e.g. Milestone X is research oriented and as such there is no code to test).

> :zap: If any of your deliverables is based on somebody else's work, make sure you work and publish _under the terms of the license_ of the respective project and that you **highlight this fact in your milestone documentation** and in the source code if applicable! **Teams that submit others' work without attributing it will be immediately terminated.**

### Overview

- **Total Estimated Duration:** Duration of the whole project (e.g. 2 months)
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  Average number of full-time employees working on the project throughout its duration (see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Full-time_equivalent), e.g. 2 FTE)
- **Total Costs:** Requested amount in USD for the whole project (e.g. 12,000 USD). Note that the acceptance criteria and additional benefits vary depending on the [level](../README.md#level_slider-levels) of funding requested. This and the costs for each milestone need to be provided in USD; if the grant is paid out in Bitcoin, the amount will be calculated according to the exchange rate at the time of payment.

### Milestone 1 Example — Implement Substrate Modules

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  2
- **Costs:** 8,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | Apache 2.0 / GPLv3 / MIT / Unlicense |
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both **inline documentation** of the code and a basic **tutorial** that explains how a user can (for example) spin up one of our Substrate nodes and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an **article**/workshop that explains [...] (what was done/achieved as part of the grant). (Content, language and medium should reflect your target audience described above.)
| 1. | Substrate module: X | We will create a Substrate module that will... (Please list the functionality that will be implemented for the first milestone) |  
| 2. | Substrate module: Y | We will create a Substrate module that will... |  
| 3. | Substrate module: Z | We will create a Substrate module that will... |  
| 4. | Substrate chain | Modules X, Y & Z of our custom chain will interact in such a way... (Please describe the deliverable here as detailed as possible) |  


### Milestone 2 Example — Additional features

- **Estimated Duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  1
- **Costs:** 4,000 USD

...


## Future Plans

Please include here

- how you intend to use, enhance, promote and support your project in the short term, and
- the team's long-term plans and intentions in relation to it.


## Additional Information :heavy_plus_sign:

**How did you hear about the Grants Program?** Web3 Foundation Website / Medium / Twitter / Element / Announcement by another team / personal recommendation / etc.

Here you can also add any additional information that you think is relevant to this application but isn't part of it already, such as:

- Work you have already done.
- If there are any other teams who have already contributed (financially) to the project.
- Previous grants you may have applied for.

